>> Senator from Illinois is 10 minutes. >> Thank you very much, Madam President. And thank you to the distinguished Senator from Connecticut, not only for the yielding time, but also for these, we're really hard work that he's put in over the last several days, in fact over a week. And I want to thank his counterparts on the other side, including Senator Greg for their hard work. Now, the fact that we're even here voting on plans to rescue our economy from the greed and the responsibility of Wall Street and Senator Washington is now the rich. It's not rich to every American who works hard, takes for taxes, and is doing the best every day to make a better life for themselves and their families. And understandably, people are frustrated and they're angry. The Wall Street's mistakes have put their tax dollars at risk, and they should be. Unfrustrated in angry too. The Wall Street's plenty of blame to go around and many Washington and Wall Street who deserve it. All of us, all of us, have a responsibility to solve this crisis because of effects. The financial well-being of every single American. There will be time to punish no suicide this fire, but now's not the time to argue about how it got set or did the neighbor sleep as better, leave the stove on right now and we'll put out that fire. And now's the time for us to come together and do that. When the House of Representatives failed act on Monday. We saw the single largest decline in the stock market in two decades. Over $1 trillion of wealth was lost by the time the market's closed. It wasn't just a few CEOs or Wall Street executives. The 401(k)s and retirement accounts of billions became smaller. The state pension funds and teachers and government employees lost billions upon billions of dollars. Hardworking Americans who invested their nest egg, the logic grows on the finish and in some cases disappear. While that decline was devastating, the consequences of the credit crisis that caused it will be even worse if we do not act now. We're very dangerous situation where financial institutions across this country are afraid to lend money. If all that meant was a failure of a few banks in New York, that would be one thing. But that's not what it means. What it means is if we don't act it would be harder for Americans to get a mortgage for their home. Or loans they need to buy car or send their children to college. What it means is that businesses won't be able to get the loans they need to open new factory or make payroll for their workers. If they can't make payroll on Friday, then workers are laid off on Monday. And if workers are laid off on Monday, then they can't pay their bills or pay back their loans to somebody else. And we'll go on and on and on, rippling through the entire economy. Potentially we can see thousands of businesses close. Millions of jobs could be lost and along and painful recession could follow. In other words, this is not just a Wall Street crisis. It's an American crisis. It's the American economy that needs this rescue plan. I understand completely why people would be skeptical when this president asked for a blank check to solve this problem. I was too. As was Senator Dodd, and a whole bunch of us here. That's why over a week ago I demanded that this plan include some specific proposals to protect taxpayers. Protections that the administration eventually agreed to and thanks to the hard work of Senator Dodd and Republican Democrats like Senator Greg. We hear the Senate agreed to and hopefully the House will agree to as well. Let me just go over those principles. Number one, I said we need an independent board to provide oversight and accountability for how and where this money is spent at every step of the way. Number two, I said that we cannot help banks on Wall Street without helping millions of innocent homeowners who are struggling to stay in their homes. They deserve a plan too. Number three, I said I would not allow this plan to become a welfare program for Wall Street executives who's agreed in response to the guy saying this mess. Finally, I said that if Americans and taxpayers are financing this solution, then they have to be treated like investors. They should get every penny of their tax dollars back once the economy recovers. This might as part as important because it's been the most misunderstood and poorly communicated part of this plan. This is not a plan to just hand over $700 billion of taxpayer money to a few banks. If this is managed correctly and that's an important if we will hopefully get most or all of our money back and possibly even turning profit on the government's intervention. Every penny of which will go directly back to the American people. And if we fall short, we will levy a fee on financial institutions so that they can repay for the losses that they cost. Now, let's acknowledge, even with all these tax pay protection, this plan is not perfect. Democrats and Republicans and Congress have legitimate concerns about it. Some of my closest colleagues, people like, have the greatest respect for, still have problems with it. They choose to vote against this bill and I think that we can respectfully disagree. I understand their frustrations. I also know they're many Americans here, they're concerned. But it's clear that from my perspective, this is what we need to do right now to prevent the possibility of a crisis turning into a catastrophe. It is conceivable. It's possible that if we did nothing, everything would turn out okay. There's a possibility that that's true. There's no doubt that there may be other plans out there that we had two or three or six months to develop. Might be even more refined and might serve our purposes better. But we don't have that kind of time. And we can't afford to take a risk that the economy of the United States of America and as a consequence of worldwide economy could be plunged into a very, very, deep hole. So, Democrats and Republicans who oppose this plan, I say, step up to the plate. Let's do what's right for the country at this time because the time to act is now. I know many Americans are wondering what happens next. If passing this bill can't be the end of our work to strengthen our economy, it must be the beginning. Because one thing I think all of us who may end up supporting this bill understand is that even if we get this in place, we could still have enormous problems and probably will have big problems in the economy over the next several months and potentially longer. Because the fact is that we have seen some mismanagement of the fundamentals of the economy for a very long time. And we're not going to dig ourselves out of that hole immediately. So this is not the end, this is the beginning. As soon as we pass this rescue plan, we need to move aggressively with the same sense of urgency to rescue families on Main Street, who are struggling to pay their bills and keep their jobs. They've been in crisis a lot longer than all three guys. I said before and I said again, we need to pass an economic stimulus package that will help ordinary Americans, co-authorizing food and gas prices. They can save 1 million jobs, rebuilding our schools and roads and our infrastructure and help states and cities avoid budget cuts and tax increase. We're going to plan that we'll extend, exploring our employment benefits for those Americans who lost their jobs and cannot find new ones. That's the right thing to do at a time when consumer confidence is down and we are in great danger of slipping into a big recession. We also must do more in this rescue package in order to help homeowners stay in their homes. I will continue to advocate thank our team of reforms. I know my colleague from Illinois, Dick Gervin has been a strong champion of this as many as the right thing to do to change our bankruptcy laws so that people have a better chance of staying in their homes and we're not seeing communities devastated all across the country. We should encourage to study the option of buying individual mortgages like we did successfully in the 1930s. And finally while we all hope that this rescue package succeeds, we should be prepared to take more big transactions in the months ahead to rebuild capital. If it's necessary. Just as families are planning for their future in tough times, Washington is going to have to do the same. We're not always spending. We're not going to do our families, we're under budgets. It can't be how Washington handles people's tax dollars. So we're going to have to return to the fiscal responsibility we had in the 1990s. And next White House and next Congress is going to have to work together to make sure that we go through our budget. We get rid of programs that don't work and we make the ones that do work better and cause less. With less money flowing into the trade system, use programs or policies. Might need to be delayed. Somebody needs to be stretched out over a longer period of time. But there are certain investments that we cannot delay. Precisely because our economy is in turmoil. We can't wait to help Americans keep up with rising costs and tricking paychecks. We're going to do that by making sure that we are giving our workers a middle class tax cut. We can't wait to leave the burden of crushing health care costs. We can't wait to create millions of new jobs by rebuilding our roads and our bridges and investing in broadband lines and rural communities. Fixing our electricity grid so we can get renewable energy to population centers that need them. We need to develop an energy policy that prevents us from sending $700 billion a year to tyrants and dictators for their oil. We can't wait to educate the next generation of Americans with skills and knowledge they need to compete with any workers anywhere in the world. These are the priorities we cannot delay. Let me just close my saying this. I do not think this is going to be easy. It's not going to come without costs. We are all going to need to sacrifice. We're all going to need to pull our weight because now we're the ever. We are all in this together. That's part of what this crisis is taught us. At the end of the day, there's no real separation between Wall Street and Main Street. There's only the road we're traveling on as Americans. We will rise or fall on that journey as one nation. There's one people. I know that many Americans are feeling anxiety right now about their jobs, about their homes, about their life savings. But I also know this. Now we can steer ourselves out of this crisis. We are always half during the great financial crisis of the last century. It's first by our site yet. FDR told us fellow Americans that there is an element in the readjustment of our financial system more important than currency, more important than gold. And that is the confidence of the people themselves. Confidence and courage are the essentials of success in carrying out our plan. Let us unite in vanishing fear. Together we cannot fail. We cannot fail. Not now. Not tomorrow. Not next year. This is a nation that space down war and oppression, great challenges and great threats. And at each and every moment, we have risen to meet up these challenges. Now, it's Democrats and not as Republicans, but as Americans. It's what it was all. With confidence. With that fundamental belief that here in America, our destiny is not written for us. It's written by us. And that's who we are. And that's the country I know we can be right now. I want to thank you again the extraordinary leadership of Chairman Dodd. And thank you, God, the banking committee as well as Chairman Bockus and majority leader, lead and read. They have worked tirelessly. I want to thank the leadership and the House of Representatives. I urge my colleagues to join in supporting this important legislation. Understanding that this will not solve all our problems. It is a necessary but not sufficient step to make sure that this economy once again works on behalf of all Americans in their pursuit of the American dream. Thank you, Mr. President.