Let me begin by thanking the bipartisan group of U.S. governors who convene this me. Few challenges facing America and the world are more urgent in combating climate change. The science is beyond dispute and the facts are clear. Sea levels are rising. Coastlines are shrinking. We've seen record drought spreading famine and storms that are growing stronger with each passing hurricane season. Climate change and our dependence on foreign oil, if left undressed, will continue to weaken our economy and threaten our national security. I know many of you are working to confront this challenge. In particular, I want to commend the governments of Belis, Governor Doyle, Governor Christ, Governor Belgoyevich, and your host, Governor Schwarzenegger. All of you have shown truly your ship in fight to combat global warming. We've also seen a number of businesses doing their part by investing in clean energy technologies. But too often, Washington is failed to show the same kind of leadership. That will change when I take office. My President's single marked a new chapter in America's leadership on climate change. That will strengthen our security and create millions of new jobs in the process. That will start with a federal cap and trade system. We'll establish strong annual targets that set us on a course to reduce emissions to their 1990 levels by 2020 and reduce them at additional 80% by 2050. For it will invest $15 billion each year to catalyze private sector efforts to build a clean energy future. We'll invest in solar power, wind power, and next generation biofuels. We'll tap nuclear power while making sure it's safe and we will develop clean coal technologies. This investment will not only help us reduce our dependence on foreign oil, making the United States more secure, and will not only help us bring about a clean energy future, saving the planet. It will also help us transform our industries and steer our country out of this economic crisis by generating 5 million new green jobs that pay well and can't be outsourced. The truth is, the United States can't meet this challenge alone. The Song of this problem will require all of us working together. I understand your meeting is being attended by government officials from over a dozen countries, including the UK, Canada, Mexico, Brazil, and Chile, Poland, and Australia, India, and Indonesia. And I look forward to working with all nations to meet this challenge in the coming years. Let me also say special words to the delegates for around the world to work together at Poland next month. Your work is vital to the planet. While I won't be president at the time of your meeting, and while the United States has only won president any time, I've asked members of Congress who are attending the conference as observers to report back to me on what they learned there. And once I take office, you can be sure that the United States will once again engage vigorously in these negotiations and help leave the world toward a new era of global cooperation on climate change. Now's the time to confront this challenge once and for all. The lay is no longer an option. The Nile is no longer an acceptable response. The stakes are too high. The consequences is too serious. Stopping climate change won't be easy. They won't happen overnight. But I promise you this, when I am president, any governor who is willing to promote clean energy will have a partner in the White House. Any company that's willing to invest in clean energy will have an ally in Washington. And any nation that's willing to join the cause of combating climate change will have an ally in the United States of America.